STANDARD DATA DICTIONARY #311.101 -- SAMI INTAKE FILE         10/2/17    PAGE 1
STORED IN ^SAMI(311.101,  *** NO DATA STORED YET ***   SITE: AVICENNA.VISTAEXPER
TISE.NET   UCI: VAH,ROU                                    (VERSION 18.0T02)   

DATA          NAME                  GLOBAL        DATA
ELEMENT       TITLE                 LOCATION      TYPE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This file records SAMI Intake Form fields. The purpose of this form is to 
record the demographic and contact information needed to register participants
in the International Early Lung Cancer Action Program (I-ELCAP), as well as the
physician's information.  
 
This form is created each time the site's ELCAP coordinator receives an inquiry
regarding the ELCAP study, when they click the button "Create New Case" on the
ELCAP Main Screen. They can then fill out the form with the participant's help,
including detailed notes, and submit it to create a record in this file.  
 
Records in file SAMI Intake are never deleted. They include everyone who was
evaluated for possible enrollment into the ELCAP program.  
 
I-ELCAP is an evidence-based collection of protocols for screening for, 
detecting, and treating lung cancer while it's still at Stage I, with much
better survival and wellness outcomes (http://ielcap.org/ielcap).  
 
File SAMI Intake is part of the SAMI Forms suite of files (311.101-311.199),
one file per form. Together, they define the main data-entry user interface for
Vista module Screening Applications Management - IELCAP (SAMI), the first in a
collection of screening-and-registry modules that make up Vista application
SAM. SAM is version 18 of the ELCAP application, which has been under
development, refinement, and production use by Mt. Sinai and the other I-ELCAP
member organizations since 2000.  
 
Primary Development History 
 
 @primary-dev: Frederick D. S. Marshall (toad) 
 @primary-dev-org: Vista Expertise Network (ven) 
   http://vistaexpertise.net 
 @copyright: 2017, Vista Expertise Network (ven), all rights reserved 
 @license: Apache 2.0 
   https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html 
 @last-updated: 2017-05-25T20:25Z 
 @application: Screening Applications Management (SAM) 
 @module: Screening Applications Management - IELCAP (SAMI) 
 @suite-of-files: SAMI Forms (311.101-311.199) 
 @version: 18.0T01 (first development version) 
 @release-date: not yet released 
 @patch-list: none yet 
 
 @funding-org: 2017-2018,Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation (bmsf) 
   
https://www.bms.com/about-us/responsibility/bristol-myers-squibb-foundatio 
n.html 
 
 @original-table: I-ELCAP Intake Dictionary, 2000-2017 
 @original-dev: Artit Jirapatnakil (aj) 
 @original-dev-org: International Early Lung Cancer Action Program (ielcap) 
 
 @med-expert: Claudia Ingrid Henschke, MD (cih) 
 @med-expert-org: Mt. Sinai Health System (mshs) 
 
2000/2017 ielcap/aj versions 1-17: develop original non-Vista I-ELCAP Intake
Dictionary and Intake Form.  
 
2018-08-03/16 ven/toad 18.0T01: develop draft 1 of Vista file SAMI Intake 
(311.101) based on version 17 Intake Form and Intake Dictionary, w/guidance
from ielcap/aj & mshs/cih.  


              DD ACCESS: @
              RD ACCESS: @
              WR ACCESS: @
             DEL ACCESS: @
           LAYGO ACCESS: @
           AUDIT ACCESS: @

PRIMARY KEY:        A (#123)
  Uniqueness Index: B (#1374)
       File, Field: 1) Study ID (311.101,.01)

POINTED TO BY: STUDY ID field (#.01) of the SAMI BIOPSY File (#311.105) 
               STUDY ID field (#.01) of the SAMI PET EVALUATION File (#311.106) 
               STUDY ID field (#.01) of the SAMI INTERVENTION File (#311.107) 
               


INDEXED BY:    Permanent ID (ASIVSIDP), Study ID (B)


    LAST MODIFIED: SEP 29,2017@09:50:49

311.101,.01   Study ID               0;1 FREE TEXT (Required) (audited)
                                 (Key field)

              sisid   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>15!($L(X)<3)!'(X?2.6U1.9N) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   15
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-15 characters in length, two 
                                to six letters followed by one to nine digits. 
                                Enter ?? for more help. 
              DESCRIPTION:      This is the primary key field for SAMI Intake
                                records. Every I-ELCAP participant will have a
                                record with this field filled in. It is
                                assigned automatically by the SAMI application
                                according to the I-ELCAP protocol. During the
                                enrollment process, this field will equal field
                                Temporary ID (.02), for example, TM1 or TM42 or
                                TM4321. After the enrollment process - once the
                                participant and the ELCAP Coordinator have
                                filled out the participant's SAMI Background
                                record and the participant has undergone their
                                initial low-dose CT scan, this field will equal
                                field Permanent ID (.03), for example, VA7 or
                                VA64 or VA1234.  

              TECHNICAL DESCR:
                                No equivalent field in Vista.  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS
              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP
              FIELD INDEX:      B (#1374)    REGULAR    IR    LOOKUP & SORTING
                   Unique for:  Key A (#123), File #311.101
                  Short Descr:  Select Intake Forms by Study ID
                  Description:  Cross-reference B creates index B, which is
                                file SAMI Intake's uniqueness index for its
                                primary key, A. It lets SAMI Intake Form
                                records be selected by field Study ID (.01).  
                    Set Logic:  S ^SAMI(311.101,"B",X,DA)=""
                   Kill Logic:  K ^SAMI(311.101,"B",X,DA)
                   Whole Kill:  K ^SAMI(311.101,"B")
                         X(1):  Study ID  (311.101,.01)  (Subscr 1)  (forwards)


311.101,.02   Temporary ID           0;2 FREE TEXT (Required) (audited)

              sivsidt   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>15!($L(X)<3)!'(X?2.6U1.9N) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   15
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-15 characters in length, two 
                                to six letters followed by one to nine digits. 
                                Enter ?? for more help. 
              DESCRIPTION:      This is a hidden field that helps temporarily
                                define the Study ID field (.01) and thus the
                                primary key for SAMI Intake records. Every
                                I-ELCAP participant's record will include this
                                field value. It is assigned automatically by
                                the SAMI application according to the I-ELCAP
                                protocol, equal to the record number prepended
                                by the letters TM, for example, TM1 or TM42 or
                                TM4321. During the enrollment process, field
                                Study ID (.01) equals this field, so it is used
                                as the record's primary key value. After the
                                enrollment process, Study ID is reassigned to
                                the value of field Primary ID (.03), so the
                                Temporary ID value stops being the primary key. 
 

              TECHNICAL DESCR:
                                No equivalent field in Vista.  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS

311.101,.03   Permanent ID           0;3 FREE TEXT (audited)

              sivsidp   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>15!($L(X)<3)!'(X?2.6U1.9N) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   15
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-15 characters in length, two 
                                to six letters followed by one to nine digits. 
                                Enter ?? for more help. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Patients who enroll are assigned a permanent
                                Study ID. The study coordinator changes the
                                temporary ID into a permanent ID once the
                                patient has visited for their study appointment
                                and completed the background questionnaire and
                                CT scan. The coordinator must assign a unique
                                Study identifier (Study ID) to the participant
                                by clicking on the "Assign ID" button on the
                                Intake System. The Intake System will
                                automatically assign the next available Study
                                ID. Each site is assigned a two-letter code for 
                                their site to be used for Study ID assignments.
                                Each site assigns its permanent Study IDs using
                                this special code, beginning with XX0001, then 
                                XX0002, and so on. IDs should be assigned in
                                chronological order according to the date of
                                the CT scan.  

              TECHNICAL DESCR:
                                No equivalent field in Vista.  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS
              FIELD INDEX:      ASIVSIDP (#1373)    REGULAR    IR
                                SORTING ONLY
                  Short Descr:  Identify Largest Permanent ID So Far
                    Set Logic:  S ^SAMI(311.101,"ASIVSIDP",X,DA)=""
                   Kill Logic:  K ^SAMI(311.101,"ASIVSIDP",X,DA)
                   Whole Kill:  K ^SAMI(311.101,"ASIVSIDP")
                         X(1):  Permanent ID  (311.101,.03)  (Subscr 1)
                                (forwards)


311.101,.04   Former Study ID        0;4 FREE TEXT (audited)

              sifsid   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>15!($L(X)<3)!'(X?2.6U1.9N) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   15
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-11 characters in length, two 
                                to six letters followed by one to nine digits. 
                                Enter ?? for more help. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If the participant has changed Study IDs, enter
                                their former ID here. This can happen, for
                                example, if a participant moves from one site
                                to another.  

              TECHNICAL DESCR:
                                No equivalent field in Vista.  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS
              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.05   Patient Name           0;5 FREE TEXT (Required) (audited)

              sivname   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:
                                The name of the patient: LASTNAME,FIRSTNAME MI. 
 

              TECHNICAL DESCR:  Equivalent field in Vista is field Name (.01)
                                in file Patient (2) [node 0; piece 1].  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS

311.101,.06   Patient Name (Last)    0;6 FREE TEXT (Required) (audited)

              sinamel   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>35!($L(X)<1)!'(X?1U.UNP)!(X["`") X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   35
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-35 characters in length. 
                                Answer ?? for more help. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Answer with the person's family (last) name. It
                                must begin with an upper-case letter and can
                                contain only upper-case letters, numbers, and 
                                punctuation, excluding circumflexes (^) and
                                grave accents (`).  

              TECHNICAL DESCR:  Equivalent field in Vista is field Family
                                (Last) Name (1) in file Name Components (20)
                                [node 1; piece 1].  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS
              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP
              NOTES:            XXXX--CAN'T BE ALTERED EXCEPT BY PROGRAMMER


311.101,.07   Patient Name (First)   0;7 FREE TEXT (Required) (audited)

              sinamef   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>25!($L(X)<1)!'(X?1U.UNP)!(X["`") X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   25
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-25 characters in length. 
                                Answer ?? for more help. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Answer with the person's given (first) name. It
                                must begin with an upper-case letter and can
                                contain only upper-case letters, numbers, and 
                                punctuation, excluding circumflexes (^) and
                                grave accents (`).  

              TECHNICAL DESCR:  Equivalent field in Vista is field Given
                                (First) Name (2) in file Name Components (20)
                                [node 1; piece 2].  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS
              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP
              NOTES:            XXXX--CAN'T BE ALTERED EXCEPT BY PROGRAMMER


311.101,.08   Date of Birth          0;8 DATE (audited)

              sidob   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  S %DT="E" D ^%DT S X=Y K:Y<1 X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Type a date after 1/1/1871. You may use any 
                                date format you choose. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the patient's DATE OF BIRTH which must be
                                later than 12/31/1870. DATE OF BIRTH cannot be
                                a date after the beneficiary 'Ineligible Date'
                                or a date after the 'Enrollment Application
                                Date'.  

              TECHNICAL DESCR:  Equivalent field in Vista is field Date of
                                Birth (.03) in file Patient (2) [node 0; piece
                                3].  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS
              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.09   Social Security Number 0;9 FREE TEXT (Required) (audited)

              sissn   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>10!($L(X)<9) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   10
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter 9-digit SSN or 'P' for pseudo-SSN. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Answer with the individual's social security
                                number. Answer must be 9 numbers in length. The
                                SSN will be sent to the SSA for verification.
                                This will be displayed next to the SSN. Once an
                                SSN has received a status of Verified, it is
                                locked from user updating and a "VERIFIED" will
                                be displayed by the SSN field. Only the
                                Identity Management Data QUality Team are able
                                to change a beneficiary's (veteran/non veteran)
                                SSN. If an Invalid per SSA status is received
                                for the SSN, then an "INVALID" will appear next
                                to the invalid SSN of the individual.
                                Facilities should make every effort to obtain
                                the accurate SSN from the individual for any 
                                invalid or pseudo SSN entry.  
                                 
                                If a valid SSN is not known, then a "P" will be
                                entered at the SSN prompt for the system to
                                automatically assign a Pseudo-SSN. If a Pseudo
                                SSN is entered, a Reason for entering it will
                                be required.  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS
              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1    Pseudo SSN Reason      0;10 SET (audited)

              sivssnp   
                                'R' FOR REFUSED TO PROVIDE; 
                                'S' FOR SSN UNKNOWN/FOLLOW-UP REQUIRED; 
                                'N' FOR NO SSN ASSIGNED; 
                                'T' FOR TEST PATIENT; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter the code for the reason you needed a 
                                Pseudo SSN. Enter ?? for more information. 
              DESCRIPTION:      This field is used to document the reason the
                                individual was assigned a pseudo SSN. Based on
                                your selection, the Pseudo SSN Report (Patient) 
                                option located in the Registration Menu can
                                provide you a current report of the reasons
                                entered at this prompt. The following reasons
                                are available for selection: 
                                 
                                Refused to Provide - use this reason when the
                                individual was asked for his/her SSN and
                                refused to provide the number.  
                                 
                                SSN Unknown/Follow-up required - use this
                                reason when the individual is not available to
                                ask/answer the request for SSN. The facility
                                should initiate Follow-up activity to obtain
                                the SSN.  
                                 
                                No SSN Assigned - use this reason when the
                                individual has not been assigned an SSN. This
                                generally applies to spouse or dependents of 
                                veterans who are not US citizens and
                                infrequently, non-citizen beneficiaries.  
                                 
                                Test Patient - use this reason when the
                                individual is not a real person, is only a
                                patient record created to test system behavior. 
 

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS

311.101,.11   Medical Record Number  0;11 FREE TEXT (audited)

              simrn   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>12!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   12
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-12 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the participant's medical record number,
                                if available. You may leave this field blank.  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS
              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1101 Patient Street Address .11;1 FREE TEXT

              sipsa   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>35!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   35
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-35 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the patient's street address (ex: 123
                                Main St.). Information on city, state, and
                                postal code can be entered in the next fields.  

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1102 Patient Apartment Number .11;2 FREE TEXT

              sipan   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>6!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   6
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-6 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If the patient lives in an apartment, enter the
                                number here. You may leave this field blank if
                                the patient does not have an apartment number.  

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1103 Patient City           .11;3 FREE TEXT

              sipc   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>15!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   15
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-15 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:
                                Enter the city or town where the patient lives. 
 

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1104 Patient State          .11;4 FREE TEXT

              sips   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>3!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   3
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-3 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the postal abbreviation for the state or
                                province where the patient lives (ex: AZ for
                                Arizona). If there is no state or province (for
                                example, for a non-US address), you may leave
                                this field blank.  

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1105 Patient Zip Code       .11;5 FREE TEXT

              sipz   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>10!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   10
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-10 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:
                                Enter the patient's zip code (or postal code).  

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1106 Patient County         .11;6 FREE TEXT

              sipcn   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      In what county does the patient live? You may
                                leave this field blank.  

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1107 Patient Country        .11;7 FREE TEXT

              sipcr   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<2) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 2-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      In what country does the patient live? You may
                                leave this field blank.  

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1108 Patient Home Phone     .11;8 FREE TEXT

              siph   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:
                                What is the patient's home telephone number? 

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.1109 Patient Work Phone     .11;9 FREE TEXT

              sipw   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      What is the patient's work telephone number? If
                                not applicable, leave this field blank.  

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.111  Patient Email Address  .11;10 FREE TEXT

              sipem   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>50!($L(X)<4) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   50
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 4-50 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the patient's email address. If the
                                patient does not have email, leave this field
                                blank.  

              SOURCE OF DATA:   SAMI Intake Form, I-ELCAP

311.101,.12   Primary Long ID        0;12 FREE TEXT (audited)

              sivpidl   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>15!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   15
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-15 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      This field contains the patient's long ID
                                associated with the patient's PRIMARY
                                ELIGIBILITY CODE. For most patients this is the
                                Social Security Number.  
                                 
                                No user input is needed for this field. It is
                                automatically updated when the PRIMARY
                                ELIGIBILITY CODE field is entered and edited.  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS

311.101,.13   Primary Short ID       0;13 FREE TEXT (audited)

              sivpids   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>7!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   7
              LAST EDITED:      AUG 16, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-7 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      This field contains the patient's short ID
                                associated with the patient's PRIMARY
                                ELIGIBILITY CODE. For most patients this is the
                                last four digits of the Social Security Number. 
                                 
                                No user input is needed for this field. It is
                                automatically updated when the PRIMARY
                                ELIGIBILITY CODE field is entered and edited.  

              AUDIT:            YES, ALWAYS

311.101,.14   Integration Control Number 0;14 NUMBER

              sivicn   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:+X'=X!(X>999999999999)!(X<0)!(X?.E1"."1N.N) X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 21, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Type a number between 0 and 999999999999, 0 
                                decimal digits. 

311.101,.2401 FATHER'S FIRST NAME    .24;1 FREE TEXT

              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<2) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 2-20 characters in length. 

311.101,.2402 MOTHER'S FIRST NAME    .24;2 FREE TEXT

              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<2) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 2-20 characters in length. 

311.101,.31201Medicare               .312;1 SET

              siinm   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Does this patient have Medicare? 

311.101,.31202Insurance 1 Name       .312;2 FREE TEXT

              siin1   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      What is the name of the patient's primary
                                insurance? (ex: Cigna) 


311.101,.31203Insurance 1 Member ID  .312;3 FREE TEXT

              siinmid1   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the member ID for the patient's primary
                                insurance.  


311.101,.31204Insurance 1 Group Num  .312;4 FREE TEXT

              siingn1   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the Group Number of the patient's primary
                                insurance.  


311.101,.31205Insurance 2 Name       .312;5 FREE TEXT

              siin2   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      What is the name of the patient's secondary
                                insurance? (ex: Cigna) 


311.101,.31206Insurance 2 Member ID  .312;6 FREE TEXT

              siinmid2   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the Member ID for the patient's secondary
                                insurance.  


311.101,.31207Insurance 2 Group Num  .312;7 FREE TEXT

              siingn2   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the Group Number for the patient's
                                secondary insurance.  


311.101,.31301Insurance Comments     .313;1 FREE TEXT

              siinc   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>200!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   200
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-200 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter any comments about the patient's
                                insurance. You may leave this field blank.  


311.101,.3301 Emergency Contact 1 Name .33;1 FREE TEXT

              sikn   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      The name of the patient's primary emergency
                                contact. It is important to identify two
                                emergency contacts. At least one needs to be at
                                another address.  


311.101,.3302 Emergency Contact 1 Relation .33;2 FREE TEXT

              sikr   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<2) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 2-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      What is the primary contact's relationship to
                                the patient? (ex: Daughter) 


311.101,.3303 Emergency Contact 1 Address .33;3 FREE TEXT

              sika   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>70!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   70
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-70 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      The complete address of the patient's primary
                                emergency contact.  


311.101,.3304 Emergency Contact 1 Phone .33;4 FREE TEXT

              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the phone number for the patient's
                                primary emergency contact.  


311.101,.33101Emergency Contact 2 Name .331;1 FREE TEXT

              siknb   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      The name of the patient's second emergency
                                contact. It is important to identify two
                                contacts. At least one needs to be at another
                                address.  


311.101,.33102Emergency Contact 2 Relation .331;2 FREE TEXT

              sikrb   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<2) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 2-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      What is this contact's relationship to the
                                patient? (ex: Daughter) 


311.101,.33103Emergency Contact 2 Address .331;3 FREE TEXT

              sikab   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>70!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   70
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-70 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the complete address for the patient's
                                second emergency contact.  


311.101,.33104Emergency Contact 2 Phone .331;4 FREE TEXT

              sikpb   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the phone number for the patient's second
                                emergency contact.  


311.101,1.01  Date of First Contact  1;1 DATE

              sidfc   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  S %DT="EX" D ^%DT S X=Y K:Y<1 X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      On what date was this patient first contacted? 

311.101,1.02  Date of Baseline CT    1;2 DATE

              sidoe   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  S %DT="EX" D ^%DT S X=Y K:Y<1 X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter the date of the patient's baseline CT, in 
                                any format. 

311.101,1.03  Research Protocol      1;3 SET

              sirp   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 25, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter y if the patient qualifies for the study, 
                                or n if they do not. 
              DESCRIPTION:      An Intake form is generated for every call
                                received for the ELCAP study, even when the
                                potential enrollee does not qualify.  
                                 
                                If the potential enrollee does not qualify,
                                answer n or No in this field.  The coordinator
                                can then enter comments in the "Additional
                                Information" field as to why the caller did not
                                qualify.  
                                 
                                If the potential enrollee does meet the
                                qualifications, enter y or Yes in this field.  


311.101,1.04  Cancellation           1;4 SET

              sica   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter y if there was a cancellation. 

311.101,1.05  Special Attention      1;5 SET

              sisa   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter y if this patient requires special 
                                attention. 

311.101,1.06  How Heard about Program 1;6 SET

              sihap   
                                'br' FOR brochure; 
                                'md' FOR doctor referral; 
                                'fp' FOR friend in program; 
                                'in' FOR internet; 
                                'ar' FOR medical journal articles; 
                                'np' FOR newspaper; 
                                'ra' FOR radio; 
                                'at' FOR TV; 
                                'wm' FOR word of mouth; 
                                'ot' FOR other; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      How did the patient hear about this program? 
              DESCRIPTION:      How did the patient hear about this program? If
                                there is more than one answer, choose the most
                                important to the patient. If you choose "other" 
                                use the next field to specify.  


311.101,1.07  How Heard Other Specify 1;7 FREE TEXT

              sihapo   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>70!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   70
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-70 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If you chose "other" for how the patient heard
                                about this program, please specify their answer
                                here.  


311.101,2     Patient Information    2;0   WORD-PROCESSING #311.10111
                     (IGNORE "|")


311.101,3.01  Physician Name         3;1 FREE TEXT

              simdn   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      A Sponsoring Physician (usually the patient's
                                primary care MD) must be given for each
                                patient. The physician's address, phone number
                                and fax number must all be entered in the
                                intake data form for several reasons.  
                                 
                                First, the reports must be sent to a doctor
                                involved in the enrolee's care.  
                                 
                                Second, the physician information can be
                                helpful in tracking down where a patient may
                                have moved and/or patient health status
                                (particularly if the patient may have expired
                                since their initial screening CT scan).  
                                 
                                Third, if follow-up procedures are necessary,
                                the study radiologists need to collaborate with
                                the enrollee's physician to ensure that they
                                are still having an active role in their
                                patient's care.  
                                 
                                Finally, it may be necessary to have their
                                doctor order follow-up diagnostic procedures
                                (particularly when pre-certifications are
                                needed by certain insurance companies) and
                                developing rapport with the patient's physician
                                office is important in this regard.  


311.101,3.02  Physician Street Address 3;2 FREE TEXT

              simdsa   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>35!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   35
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-35 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the street address of the patient's
                                Sponsoring Physician (usually their primary
                                care MD). Information on city, state, and zip
                                code can be entered in the next fields.  


311.101,3.03  Physician City         3;3 FREE TEXT

              simdc   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>15!($L(X)<2) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   15
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 2-15 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the city or town of the Sponsoring
                                Physician's address.  


311.101,3.04  Physician State        3;4 FREE TEXT

              simds   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>3!($L(X)<1) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   3
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 1-3 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the postal abbreviation for the state in
                                the Sponsoring Physician's address.  


311.101,3.05  Physician Zip Code     3;5 FREE TEXT

              simdz   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>10!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   10
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-10 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the zip code or postal code for the
                                Sponsoring Physician's address.  A complete
                                address is needed so that reports and other
                                correspondence can be sent.  


311.101,3.06  Physician County       3;6 FREE TEXT

              simdcn   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<2) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 2-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the county for the patient's Sponsoring
                                Physician.  


311.101,3.07  Physician Country      3;7 FREE TEXT

              simdcr   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>3!($L(X)<2) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   3
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 2-3 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the abbreviation for the country of the
                                patient's Sponsoring Physician.  


311.101,3.08  Physician Phone        3;8 FREE TEXT

              simdp   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the phone number for the patient's
                                Sponsoring Physician. If there is more than one
                                phone number listed, enter the primary office
                                phone number.  


311.101,3.09  Physician Fax          3;9 FREE TEXT

              simdf   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>20!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   20
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-20 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the fax number for the patient's
                                Sponsoring Physician. 


311.101,4.01  Number of Phone Calls  4;1 SET

              sicnc   
                                '0' FOR 0; 
                                '1' FOR 1; 
                                '2' FOR 2; 
                                '3' FOR 3; 
                                'x' FOR X; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 26, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Each attempt to call the participant for follow 
                                up is recorded here. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Each attempt to call the participant for
                                follow-up is recorded here. For example, if an
                                attemt has already been made, and you make a
                                second attempt, change this field from 1 to 2.  


311.101,4.02  Number of Letters      4;2 SET

              sicnl   
                                '0' FOR 0; 
                                '1' FOR 1; 
                                '2' FOR 2; 
                                '3' FOR 3; 
                                'x' FOR X; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Each attempt to contact the participant by mail 
                                is recorded here. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Each attempt to contact the participant by mail
                                for follow up is recorded here. For example, if
                                a letter has already been sent, and you are
                                sending a second letter, change this field from
                                1 to 2.  


311.101,4.03  Patient Status         4;3 POINTER TO SAMI PATIENT STATUS FILE (#
                                311.10112)

              sies   
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Select the appropriate status for this patient. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If the participant drops out of the study for
                                any reason, or does not respond to reminders to
                                schedule, they are considered "inactive." When 
                                this occurs, change the Status from Active to
                                indicate their reason for discontinuing, and
                                enter the Date of Exit. Several statuses
                                require additional specification; use the next
                                field to specify. If the participant died,
                                change the status to Expired, and fill in the
                                Date of Death (DOD) and Cause of Death (COD)
                                fields.  


311.101,4.04  Patient Status (Specify) 4;4 FREE TEXT

              sieso   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>70!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   70
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-70 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If you selected a patient status that requires
                                specification, use this field to specify.  


311.101,4.05  Date of Exit           4;5 DATE

              sixdate   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  S %DT="EX" D ^%DT S X=Y K:Y<1 X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter the date on which the participant left 
                                the study, in any format. 
              DESCRIPTION:      The Date of Exit should be recorded for all
                                subjects who are no longer active in the study.
                                It signifies the date on which they change to a 
                                non-active status.  


311.101,4.06  Date of Death          4;6 DATE

              sidod   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  S %DT="E" D ^%DT S X=Y K:Y<1 X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      If the patient expired, enter their date of 
                                death, in any format. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If the patient expired, set their status to
                                Expired, enter the date of death in this field,
                                and enter the cause of death in the next field. 
 


311.101,4.07  Cause of Death         4;7 FREE TEXT

              sicod   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>70!($L(X)<3) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   70
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 3-70 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If the participant expired, change their status
                                to Expired, enter the date of death in the
                                previous field, and enter the cause of death
                                here.  


311.101,5.01  Correspondence Date    5;1 DATE

              sircd   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  S %DT="EX" D ^%DT S X=Y K:Y<1 X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter the date of the correspondence with the 
                                patient or physician. 
              DESCRIPTION:      These fields should be used to record
                                correspondence or communication with the
                                patient or physician. This field holds the
                                date; the next fields will contain the
                                recipient, nature of communication, and so on.  


311.101,5.02  Correspondence Date of Exam 5;2 DATE

              sired   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  S %DT="EX" D ^%DT S X=Y K:Y<1 X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter the date of the exam this correspondence 
                                is about. 
              DESCRIPTION:      These fields should be used to record
                                correspondence or communication with the
                                patient or physician. This field holds the date
                                of the exam you are communicating about. The
                                previous field should contain the date of the
                                communication. The next fields will contain the
                                recipient and nature of the communication.  


311.101,5.03  Correspondence Recipient 5;3 SET

              sirr   
                                's' FOR patient; 
                                'm' FOR physician; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter s if this correspondence is with a 
                                patient; enter m if it is with a physician. 
              DESCRIPTION:      These fields should be used to record
                                correspondence or communication with the
                                patient or physician. This field holds the
                                recipient of the communication (s for patient
                                or m for physician). The previous fields should
                                contain the date of the exam and the date of
                                the correspondence.  The next fields will
                                contain the name of the physician, the nature
                                of the correspondence and the correspondence
                                coordinator.  


311.101,5.04  Correspondence Physician Name 5;4 FREE TEXT

              sirmd   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If this correspondence is with a physician (and
                                not the patient), enter the physician's name
                                here.  
                                 
                                These fields should be used to record
                                correspondence or communication with the
                                patient or physician. Previous fields should
                                contain the date and recipient of the
                                communication. The next fields will hold the 
                                nature of the correspondence and the
                                correspondence coordinator.  


311.101,5.05  Correspondence Nature  5;5 SET

              sirn   
                                'fr' FOR faxed report; 
                                'mr' FOR mailed report; 
                                'pr' FOR called to give results; 
                                'ab' FOR Abx discussed with physician; 
                                'bx' FOR Bx discussed with physician; 
                                'os' FOR other (specify); 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      What kind of correspondence was this? 
              DESCRIPTION:      This section should be used to record
                                correspondence or communication with the
                                patient or physician. This field holds the
                                nature of the correspondence. Previous fields
                                should contain the recipient and date.  The
                                next fields will include the correspondence
                                coordinator.  


311.101,5.06  Correspondence Other (Specify) 5;6 FREE TEXT

              sirns   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>70!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   70
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-70 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      If you chose "other" as the nature of the
                                correspondence, please specify the nature here. 
                                 
                                These fields should be used to record
                                correspondence or communication with the
                                patient or physician. Previous fields should
                                contain the date, recipient and nature of the
                                correspondence. The next field will contain the
                                correspondence coordinator.  


311.101,5.07  Correspondence Coordinator 5;7 FREE TEXT

              sirc   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 27, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      The name of the person managing this
                                correspondence or communication.  


311.101,6.01  Has Patient Signed Consent 6;1 SET

              sicfs   
                                'n' FOR No ; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 28, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Has the patient signed the consent form? 
              DESCRIPTION:      Has the patient signed the consent form? If no,
                                the patient is ineligible for the study.  


311.101,6.02  Date Informed Consent Signed 6;2 DATE

              sidoc   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  S %DT="EX" D ^%DT S X=Y K:Y<1 X
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 28, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Enter the date on which the patient signed 
                                consent, in any format. 

311.101,6.03  Who Obtained Consent   6;3 FREE TEXT

              siioc   
              INPUT TRANSFORM:  K:$L(X)>30!($L(X)<5) X
              MAXIMUM LENGTH:   30
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 28, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Answer must be 5-30 characters in length. 
              DESCRIPTION:      Enter the name of the staff person who obtained
                                consent from the patient.  


311.101,6.04  Consent Given to Patient 6;4 SET

              sicfp   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 28, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Has the patient been given a copy of the 
                                consent form? 

311.101,6.05  Store for Future Studies 6;5 SET

              sicrd   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 28, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Can this patient's information be stored for 
                                future studies? 

311.101,6.06  For Directly Related Studies 6;6 SET

              sicrdd   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 28, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Can this patient's information be used for 
                                directly related studies? 

311.101,6.07  For Unrelated Studies  6;7 SET

              sicrdn   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 28, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Can the patient's information be used for 
                                unrelated studies? 

311.101,6.08  Contact for Future Studies 6;8 SET

              sicrs   
                                'n' FOR No; 
                                'y' FOR Yes; 
              LAST EDITED:      SEP 28, 2017 
              HELP-PROMPT:      Should this patient be contacted for future 
                                studies? 


      FILES POINTED TO                      FIELDS

SAMI PATIENT STATUS (#311.10112)  Patient Status (#4.03)



INPUT TEMPLATE(S):

PRINT TEMPLATE(S):

SORT TEMPLATE(S):

FORM(S)/BLOCK(S):
