:doctitle:    VA-PALS – Projects – Vista Expertise Network
:mastimg:     aboutvista
:mastcaption: Vista consultants
:mastdesc:    Real-time patient information means real care

== VA-PALS Meetings

We're going to start collecting Laura's minutes and action items here. Action
items are in [red]##red##.

=== Pilot meeting --- 2017-09-08 (Fri) 11:00 EDT

Rick Avila,
Laura Cartwright,
Domenic DiNatale,
Claudia Henschke,
Kathy Ice,
Artit Jirapatnakil,
George Lilly,
Rick Marshall,
Drew Moghanaki,
PeeWee,
Paska Permana,
Linda Yaw.

**Topics:**

* **Updates**

** We have been classified as an enterprise-wide initiative by the Office of
   Rural Health, increasing our chances of a national release.

** We will be talking with the QUERI group. Want to learn from our group
   regarding our experiences implementing across several VA locations.

* **Server Install**

** Discussion with BioMed waits until Sam gets back next week.

** Codes are the same being used outside the VA system.

** Code for the first CT screening G297 code, follow up is coded
   differently. These are newly introduced, so looking at prior screening
   requires drilling down into the coding.

** Artit’s WOC is progressing---HR is contacting his references.

* **Pack-Year Clinical Reminder**

** Developing inside and outside the system. Claudia, Paska and PeeWee are
   working on developing templates but need input on it from physicians and Sam
   in Phoenix. CMS requires you say how old and total number of pack years and
   currently a smoker or trying to quit.

** Claudia thinks that post VA session there should be a gathering of what
   points to discuss, Rick will be there. Want to think about what should be
   discussed. Drew suggests safeguarding the discussion. Shared decision making
   or clinical decision making is a separate issue---the encounter note should
   be just a way to document point of contact.

** Claudia does not plan to discuss the encounter note during 37th. Suggests
   setting a time to talk to contain all the topics that will naturally arise.

** Drew suggests Chris Slatore to keep the peace. Claudia will email Chris
   Slatore to strategize how best to shape the VA discussions

* **Encounter Note**

* **Local Press Release**

** Paska and PeeWee more than welcome to work with the local PR person once Sam
   returns.

** Will wait until Sam comes back to contact the PR release.

** Drew would like to see the release from Phoenix before it launches
   nationally.

* **Nurse III**

** Learned that we can push money to hire a nurse practitioner as early as
   October. It’s Sam’s decision how best to use the ORH funding.

** Paska asks about the VA-PALS funding. The ORH funding is on top of BMSF
   funding. Funding discussions will happen later.

** Money to hire the nurse will not go through research. It will likely go
   directly to Pulmonary or Nursing.

* **Summit Attendees**

** First VA wide lung screening summit. A bigger focus than I-ELCAP. Whole
   thingwill be VA. Implementation issues, SCM with Veteran issues, local
   challenges and forward thinking opportunities (Image transfer).

** Currently planning on Sam, Paska & PeeWee.

** Paska suggests maybe someone from radiology or informatics.

** Claudia suggests going back to BMSF for funding of screening but Drew was
   told they do not support these types of Summits, but he will ask again about
   supplemental funding.

** Claudia notes that it’s a bit too early to invite BMSF leadership---but that
   we should do so in the future..

** [red]##Drew will contact BMSF about supplemental funding.##

* **Budget Reports**

** Diane Eline (sp?) and Laura Davis are the points of contact in Phoenix for
   research and budget information.

** [red]##Paska will email Laura the information for Laura Davis and Diane
   Eline.##

* **37th Drew Slides**

* **Action Item summary:**

** **Drew:** Contact BMSF about supplemental funding.

** **Paska:** Email Laura the information for Laura Davis and Diane Eline.

=== Pilot meeting --- 2017-09-01 (Fri) 11:00 EDT

**Attendees:**
Alexis Carlson,
Laura Cartwright,
Domenic DiNatale,
George Lilly,
Drew Moghanaki,
Paska Permana.

**Topics:**

* **Press Release**

** The press release is out and we have 25 emailees who received it. Rick,
   Claudia and Drew crafted a summary of the project with more information.
** Bruce Johnson (pres ASCO) responded positively.
** Phoenix is named in the press release.
** Once an authorized press release is released it can be reproduced locally.
** Do not speak on behalf of VA---not authorized to do so.
** We want to avoid the message spinning out of control.
** Centralize all the information on the VA-PALS website.
** Can Paska share the press release with local medical media? Yes, but be
   careful when asked for additional information.
** Sam will be back at the end of next week. Let’s discuss next week.
** [red]##Laura will talk to Kate about developing a landing page for the
    website.##
** [red]##If speaking to the press, do not speak on behalf of the VA.##

* **Website**

** [red]##Laura will get Kate press release and summary for a front page.##

* **January Summit**

** On hold due to flooding
** Are we comfortable sending a save the date? 

** Agenda would be the spirit of embracing all the work that the VA is doing
   and how this project will add a new dimension to the VA processes. We want
   the sites that are currently screening to want to add the I{nbhy}ELCAP
   program to their current screening program. A focused QA session. CH{nbsp}
   suggests that Houston will work out fine.

** [red]##Drew will be sending out a Save the Date notice.##

* **Action Item summary:**

** **All:** If speaking to the press stress that you are _not_ speaking on
   behalf of the VA.

** **Claudia:** Will connect with Paska and PeeWee Wednesday or Thursday;
   following that call they will wait for Sam to return to discuss the
   encounter note further.

** **Drew:** Send out Save the Dates for the January Screening Summit.

** **Laura:** Will work with Kate to develop a landing page for the website,
   and provide press release and summary.
     
** **PeeWee:** Will be looking into the codes Phoenix currently uses for
   screening.
     
